Given the currently extensive use of AI tools like [[Examples of ML-Based AI Tools|ChatGPT, Midjourney and even DeepFakes]] it is plausible to assume that this is a beginning which is going to result in a world where most of the things we see, hear and do are in some ways touched by, or generated by a machine.

With the power to create any sort of fantasy and content at one's fingertips, there is the potential for the creation of great levels of information and more importantly, misinformation, alike. Just take a look at the world in which we exist today: it is a world in which people are stuck to their phone's screens, addicted to the consumption of short-form content such as reels and shorts. With the convenience of releasing content and information at great scale would mean consumers are overburdened with many different knowledge sources, finding it increasingly difficult to converge to any sort of conclusion on a matter. This problem is defined as [[Institutional and Knowledge Decay in Society| institutional and knowledge decay]], and is a real and growing problem in today's society.

Furthermore, with this convenience results in the advent of "super-institutions" or [[Exponential Companies]], in which influence over the masses is controlled by the few. This creates a recipe for a tyrannical global order; one in which the knowledge sources that are consumed by the masses become polluted with propaganda and bias, exacerbating the effects of [[Institutional and Knowledge Decay in Society]]. Extrapolating this concept, there may also be negative effects on [[The Detriments of Globalization|globalization]] in society, and the loss of control and cultural and political representation of countries.
# The Paradox and the Solution
Paradoxically, however, with exponential tools like AI we'll never have more knowledge, more capability and more innovation potential. Thus, while the world grows more distrustful and sick, the tools we have and our ability to fix those problems have never been better. If used in a [[Institutional and Knowledge Decay in Society#The Solution to Knowledge Decay is a Virtuous System|different configuration]] these tools do indeed have the potential to create abundance for everybody.